cow's milk has been farmed for over
8,000 years but it wasn't until the
beginning of the 19th century that milk
technology began to progress with an
increasing demand on the farms existing
throughout cities plagued by disease and
unbearable odors it became clear the
whole milk production process would need
to be developed to satisfy the changing
culture it was the dawn of the
Industrial Revolution and the advancing
rail networks that started to approach
these challenges allowing the dairy
process to be rural II located and milk
transported by requirement left a final
hurdle of overcoming the preservation
and storage of milk which saw the birth
of pasteurization and bottle packaging
the recent years have seen many
advancements in milk technology and
logistical streamlining want to know
more good
now join us on our journey as we take
you from cow to consumer our milk
transport story begins at Bibby's milk
collection Depot in Cumbria we collect
around about 6 on the farm for this step
ahead this is our this is our cumbia
field so everything as a farm we collect
and we also deliver to Lily to the mill
to dairies across across the UK every
farm they go through they take a sample
of milk for instance and that sample of
milk is really important because a
farmer gets paid on on volume and the
quality of the milk
I'm sure McClelland farm collection
driver first things first we you know
we're coming first thing my morning
going the drivers restroom pick up our
file we what we pick and up in the deer
get our sample boxes ready and then we
set off to the farm
once we get their luggage at the bus
crash the whores set the wagon off where
we Swedish obviously get out take the
pipe off you've got the next farm
once the wagons loaded we come back to
the daddy going to the intake we unload
their fixed round about half an hour
our roots Mystere the same on the DFT
databases unless you know the volume
fluctuate and then Jimmer Albert will
sort the ropes out probably milk volumes
differ you know very rapidly farmers to
hold there there's a lot of younger
sense so we've got escaped overcome
filled with devil the books of yet later
we do that once a week skip lives up
today we'll just work off them figure
Colin Halloween week that's our main
thing is getting the targets milked
collected transported on average each
dairy cow in Britain produces six
thousand eight hundred and eighty five
liters each year once the milk has been
processed and bottled it needs to get to
store our story continues at the DHL
logistics depot in Harlow a typical day
hollow for a milk would be four trunks
will be delivered in over the course you
today would unload them check the
temperatures of the vehicle make sure
that militant temperature and we lit in
spate to line it up in obviously size
two liter 1 litre quantities the guys
we've been spending them aggressive they
picking the milk into tetes and once
it's picked its marked up for what store
is going to with a sliver of cardboard
and it'll ever watched remember number
and a meet Etsy consists of then we lit
round into the next Bay ready for it to
be out loaded in the evening by our
nightshift guys who load or store
vehicles basically we run at least forty
roofs out of here a day to all different
stores all over the southeast will put
the drivers names by their roots so
everyone knows what they're doing when
they come back to night guys will have
their paperwork so they know where
they're going in the morning and in a
way they'll go delivered sorted out
loaded DHL travel approximately three
point nine million kilometers across the
UK each year for milk transportation our
story continues to a cot cut a local
convenience store in Sheehan s I arrived
at work about four thirty ready to leave
the deaf about five you go to the
transfer office you pick up your
paperwork including the manifests sort
through paperwork make sure it's all
there
check your lorry over and then
get on your way really on the left-hand
side you have the first of all you have
the customer number which is quite
important a rough idea of the shop name
in the area it's in then for instance
here you've got there the amount of
cages that have been loaded and that
you've delivered should all correspond
to the sign the pallet of trees I've
just done is a shared with the next drop
as well so it's half a pilot each
milk creates a footfall hip come in the
Vermeil they pick up daily paper a loaf
of bread in offices and what man the
shelves up see other things that you
need and it creates sales for us we do
so just over 1,500 bottles of milk a
week so it is rather important to us
delivered shelved purchased milk is the
single largest agricultural sector at
3.5 billion that all this in just 48
hours